All right concept ject 7 for RC circuits consider these two circuits over here.
So same voltage different values of the resistance and same capacitance.
So batteries and capacitors are identical then you are going to close the switch.
Let's go ahead do that for a very long time.
To close a switch for a really long time.
However at Teagle zero we open them again.
Let me get rid of that.
So first of all let's first see what happens after we've closed them for a long time.
All right because we're going to end up charging both of those capacitors.
So after a long time again the voltage Now what voltage do you think you would get after a long time
again the voltage across each branch has to be the same.
And after a while you're not going to have any current So there's no more voltage drop after a long
time across the one arm and the form resistor.
So that means that this is basically going to start with a voltage equal to six volts so you got this
part at least initially.
Same for both.
Right it doesn't matter because we've waited a long time.
OK now we're going to open the switch.
So think about what happens when we open the switch.
Well basically all we have here is going to be a small little circuit here.
And this branch after we open the switch.
All right in both cases this is the only thing we're really concerned about.
All right.
Is going to be what's going to happen here on the right hand side because we've opened the switch can't
be any current flowing over there.
OK so think about what happens here.
So let's look at all the choices here says the resistors and this circuit here dissipate more energy
and the resistors and B dissipate more energy.
Both pairs of resistor Well look at they have different total effective resistance right.
The equivalent resistance of circuit A is three ohms this one here and circuit B is 6 ohms right so
we have a bigger value of a resistance.
Both pairs of resistors dissipate the same amount of energy or we can't determine again whatever the
voltages for both of these cases the potential energy stored in a capacitor is given by one half C-v
squared.
C is the same for both of them.
So that means that the energy stored in this one has to be equal to the energy stored in the first one.
The voltage is going to be the same six of all the capacitance is the same.
We start with the same amount of energy.
Now again all of that energy is effectively you know if you leave this open now for a very long time
all of this energy gets dissipated by these resistors.
Now that's going to happen at a different rate.
So the power would be different.
However the total amount of energy that's going to be dissipated is going to be the same because they
started off with the same value and all that energy gets dissipated in the resistors.
So really the best choice here is that both pairs the same amount of energy they do it at a different
rate because they have a different value of effective resistance.
They have a different RC time constant which will impact the rate at which the dissipation happens however
it's the same amount of total energy.